# Contributing Guide

## AI Assistance Notice

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> If you are using **any kind of AI assistance** to contribute to **_fate_**,
> it must be disclosed in the pull request.

If you are using any kind of AI assistance while contributing to **_fate_**,
**this must be disclosed in the pull request**, along with the extent to
which AI assistance was used (e.g. docs only vs. code generation).

If PR responses are being generated by an AI, disclose that as well.
As a small exception, trivial tab-completion doesn't need to be disclosed,
so long as it is limited to single keywords or short phrases.

An example disclosure:

> This PR was written primarily by Claude Code.

Or a more detailed disclosure:

> I consulted ChatGPT to understand the codebase but the solution
> was fully authored manually by myself.

When using AI assistance, we expect contributors to understand the code
that is produced and be able to answer critical questions about it. It
isn't a maintainer's job to review a PR so broken that it requires
significant rework to be acceptable.

Please be respectful to maintainers and disclose AI assistance.

_Thanks to [Ghostty's Contribution Guidelines](https://github.com/ghostty-org/ghostty/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md) for inspiring this policy._

## Initial Setup

You'll need Node.js 24+ and [Vite+](https://viteplus.dev/).

- Run `vp install && vp run dev:setup`.
- Set up a Postgres database locally and add the connection string to `example/server-prisma/.env` as `DATABASE_URL` or run `docker-compose up -d` to start postgres in a docker container.
- Postgres setup:

```SQL
CREATE ROLE fate WITH LOGIN PASSWORD 'echo';
CREATE DATABASE fate;
ALTER DATABASE fate OWNER TO fate;
```

Then, at the root of the project, run:

- `vp run prisma migrate dev` to create the database and run the migrations.
- You might want to run `vp run prisma migrate reset` and `vp run prisma db seed` to seed the database with initial data.
- Run `vp run dev` to run the example.
- Run `vp run fate:generate` to regenerate the fate client code.

## Running Tests

- When changing framework code, you need to run `vp run build`.
- Run `vp test` to run all tests.
- Run `vp check` to run linting and type checking.
- If `@nkzw/fate` or `react-fate` modules cannot be resolved it means you forgot to run `vp run build`.
